.TH CONSILIUM 1 "May 2026" "Consilium CLI" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
consilium \- multi-agent AI debate platform CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B consilium
[\fIcommand\fR]
[\fIoptions\fR]
[\fIarguments\fR]
.PP
.B consilium
\fIquestion\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B consilium
is the command-line interface for the Consilium multi-agent debate platform.
It orchestrates structured deliberation between multiple large language models
across eight research-backed modes (quick, council, deep, blind, redteam,
jury, market, auto). Models argue, critique, and synthesize consensus through
independent analysis, cross-examination, rebuttal, and judge phases.
.PP
With no arguments,
.B consilium
launches an interactive menu (when logged in) or a login flow. With a single
non-flag argument it is treated as a one-shot debate topic.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B debate \fItopic\fR
Start a multi-agent debate on a topic. The primary entry point: streams a
deliberation between selected models and prints a synthesized answer.
.TP
.B ask \fItopic\fR
Alias of
.BR debate ,
suitable for one-off questions.
.TP
.B chat
Start an interactive chat session with multi-agent debates. Supports slash
commands, session save/resume, and follow-up turns.
.TP
.B sessions \fIsubcommand\fR
Manage saved chat sessions. Subcommands:
.BR list ,
.BR resume ,
.BR rename ,
.BR delete .
.TP
.B config \fIsubcommand\fR
Manage CLI configuration stored in
.IR ~/.consilium/config.json .
Subcommands:
.BR set ,
.BR get ,
.BR list .
.TP
.B login
Sign in and obtain a CLI token. Opens the web app for authentication.
.TP
.B logout
Sign out and clear stored credentials.
.TP
.B setup-token
Generate a long-lived CI/CD token (default 365 days). Use
.B --print
for script-friendly output.
.TP
.B share \fIsessionId\fR
Share a saved session via the backend (falls back to a local JSON export).
Pass
.B --public
to make it publicly readable.
.TP
.B voice
Record audio, transcribe with Whisper, and optionally pipe the transcript
into a debate.
.TP
.B models
Show defaults, the full model catalog, and deprecation status.
.TP
.B mcp \fIsubcommand\fR
Manage MCP (Model Context Protocol) server integrations. Subcommands:
.BR setup ,
.BR add ,
.BR list ,
.BR remove ,
.BR test ,
.BR tools .
.TP
.B benchmark
Run deliberation benchmarks (MMLU, TruthfulQA, HumanEval).
.TP
.B eval
Run a blind evaluation of responses from multiple models.
.TP
.B redteam \fIcontent\fR
Run an adversarial red-team assessment against
.IR content .
.TP
.B logs \fIdebateId\fR
Query logs for a debate. Filter by level with
.BR --level .
.TP
.B stats
Show a model performance dashboard.
.TP
.B debug \fIdebateId\fR
Print the full debug trace for a debate.
.TP
.B upgrade
Update the Consilium CLI to the latest published version. Auto-detects
pnpm, npm, yarn, or bun.
.TP
.B completions \fIshell\fR
Print the shell completion script for
.IR bash ,
.IR zsh ,
or
.I fish
to stdout. See
.B INSTALLING COMPLETIONS
below.
.SH OPTIONS
Most options are scoped to a single subcommand. The flags below appear most
often on
.B debate
and
.BR ask .
.SS Mode and models
.TP
.BR -m ", " --models " " \fIid...\fR
Models to use (e.g.
.IR claude-haiku-4-5-20251001 " " gpt-5.4-mini ).
.TP
.B --mode \fImode\fR
Debate mode:
.IR quick ", " council ", " deep ", " blind ", " redteam ", " jury ", " market ", " auto .
Defaults to
.IR auto .
.SS Output and formatting
.TP
.B --output \fIformat\fR
Output format:
.IR markdown ", " cursorrules ", " claude-md ", " json .
Defaults to a pretty-printed terminal view.
.TP
.B --output-format \fIfmt\fR
One of
.IR text ", " json ", " stream-json .
.TP
.B --json-schema \fIpath\fR
Validate the final synthesis against the given JSON Schema file and emit
JSON.
.SS Context
.TP
.B --file \fIpaths...\fR
Files to attach as context for the council.
.TP
.B --ticket \fIid\fR
Linear ticket ID (e.g.
.IR MYC-123 )
to attach as context.
.TP
.B --no-git
Do not auto-attach git diff/branch/recent commits.
.TP
.B --no-context
Disable automatic codebase context loading.
.TP
.B --no-tools
Do not expose Read/Edit/Grep/Bash tools to the council.
.SS Budget and runtime
.TP
.B --max-budget-usd \fIn\fR
Abort if the running cost estimate exceeds this many USD.
.TP
.B --max-turns \fIn\fR
Cap the debate at
.I N
rounds, overriding the mode default.
.TP
.BR -b ", " --bg
Run the debate as a detached background agent.
.TP
.B --plan
Plan mode: emit a written plan for approval before any write.
.TP
.B --apply
Apply structured edits from the synthesis directly to files.
.SS Image generation
.TP
.B --generate-image
Generate an image from the debate synthesis using the agents image-gen tool.
.TP
.B --image-prompt-from \fIsrc\fR
.IR synthesis " (default) or " topic .
.TP
.B --image-size \fIsize\fR
Image dimensions, e.g.
.IR 1024x1024 .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.consilium/config.json
Stored API URL, token, and user preferences.
.TP
.I ~/.consilium/sessions/
Saved chat sessions, each as a JSON file.
.TP
.I .consilium-session-<id>.json
Local fallback export written by
.B share
when the backend share endpoint is unavailable.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B CONSILIUM_API_URL
Override the default API origin
.RI ( https://api.myconsilium.xyz ).
.TP
.B CONSILIUM_DEBUG
When set, emits verbose CLI tracing (request URLs, retries, SSE events).
.SH INSTALLING COMPLETIONS
.SS bash
.nf
eval "$(consilium completions bash)"
.fi
Add the line above to
.I ~/.bashrc
to persist across shells.
.SS zsh
.nf
consilium completions zsh > "${fpath[1]}/_consilium"
.fi
Reload shell or run
.B compinit
afterwards.
.SS fish
.nf
consilium completions fish > ~/.config/fish/completions/consilium.fish
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Start a quick debate on a topic:
.PP
.RS
.B consilium debate "Should we use Postgres or DynamoDB?" --mode quick
.RE
.PP
Run a council mode debate with specific models and a budget cap:
.PP
.RS
.B consilium debate "Refactor auth module" \\\\
.br
.B "  --mode council --max-budget-usd 1.00 \\\\"
.br
.B "  -m claude-haiku-4-5-20251001 gpt-5.4-mini"
.RE
.PP
Attach files and a Linear ticket as context:
.PP
.RS
.B consilium debate "Review this change" \\\\
.br
.B "  --file src/auth.ts --ticket MYC-123"
.RE
.PP
Print a JSON-structured synthesis validated against a schema:
.PP
.RS
.B consilium debate "Generate API spec" \\\\
.br
.B "  --output-format json --json-schema ./schema.json"
.RE
.PP
Resume a saved chat session:
.PP
.RS
.B consilium sessions resume ses_01HY3K...
.RE
.PP
Generate a long-lived CI token for GitHub Actions:
.PP
.RS
.B consilium setup-token --name github-actions --days 365 --print
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR jq (1)
.PP
Documentation:
.UR https://myconsilium.xyz
.UE
.PP
Source:
.UR https://github.com/skadri1601/Consilium
.UE
.SH BUGS
Report issues at
.UR https://github.com/skadri1601/Consilium/issues
.UE
.SH AUTHOR
Saad Kadri and contributors.
